README.md, before:

# Homework #2 for EC500 at BU: news-analyzer-ljstaib

Copyright @2021 
Luke Staib 
ljstaib@bu.edu

Status:
--------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------

Phase 1: Completed. Stub-API modules for Phase 1 are in their respective .py files. I also have psuedocode in newsanalyzer_pseudocode.txt.

Phase 2: Completed. Files and users database has been connected and GET, POST, PUT, DELETE operations are possible.

Phase 3: Completed. Please see NLP_analysis.py for the ConvertFilesToText() function. I can currently convert from TXT and PDF files.
2/25: Turned extra newline characters into only one for converted PDFs. Just need to modify the output a little bit.

Phase 3 Deliverable 1: Completed. Data storage defined in DataStorageStrategy.pdf. Code has started to be updated to incorporate MongoDB. Please see NewsAnalyzerDemo3_1.mov for a demonstration of my current API. Data is pulled from MongoDB. 

Phase 3 Deliverable 2: In progress. Data being stored in database, can store PDF files as TXT. Just need to add text field to files database or create separate text database.

TODO:
- Authentication system
- Webpage functionality
- Host new website on S3
- Store file data (text)

Phase 1:
--------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------

Phase 1, due 2/15/21:
  - Secure File Uploader/Ingest
  - Text NLP Analysis
  - Newsfeed Ingest

Extra Requirements:
  - Create user stories for these APIs
  - For each module, make a decision:  Procedure-based or entity-based
  - For each module, decide on operations, data and status
  - Implement a stub-API
  - Use Actions and unit test
 
--------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------

Phase 2:
--------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------

- Use Flask as your WEB service platform
  - Reference 1:  https://palletsprojects.com/p/flask/ (Github:  https://github.com/pallets/flask )
  - Reference 2:  Flask-RESTFUL  (Github:  https://github.com/flask-restful/flask-restful )
- Step 2:  Integrate your module to become a RESTFUL system
  - Deploy your system to free AWS services:  https://aws.amazon.com/free/?all-free-tier.sort-by=item.additionalFields.SortRank&all-free-tier.sort-order=asc
  - Develop simple WEB applications to test your system.
  - Document your REST APIs on your Github
 
--------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------

Phase 3:
--------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------

- Focus on Ingestor module
- Investigate PDF to Text conversions
  - How to Extract Data from PDF Forms Using Python
  - pdfreader
  - Python for Pdf
  - PDFMiner
  - Fork of PDFMiner
  - Pdfplumber
- Chose module you want to use and implement uploader and Ingester
- For storage, use a folder.  No need for cloud storage.
- For extracted text, store the data in files.  No database yet.
- Due Date 2/28/2021.  It is strict this time because we want to use the database concept and implement other modules.

- First Deliverable:  Due Date: **3/1/2021**
  - Setup mysql or MongoDB
  - Create your database (Tables in case of mysql or containers in case of MongoDB)
  - Define your data storage strategy
- Second Deliverable:  Due Date: **3/7/2021**
  - Extract Text from PDF files
  - Store Data in Database
  - Dates this time are strict because we want to use the database concept and implement other modules.


--------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------

Commit message:

Updated status, deliverable 2 completed
- I just need to add more testing

README.md, after:

# Homework #2 for EC500 at BU: news-analyzer-ljstaib

Copyright @2021 
Luke Staib 
ljstaib@bu.edu

Status:
--------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------

Phase 1: Completed. Stub-API modules for Phase 1 are in their respective .py files. I also have psuedocode in newsanalyzer_pseudocode.txt.

Phase 2: Completed. Files and users database has been connected and GET, POST, PUT, DELETE operations are possible.

Phase 3: Completed. Please see NLP_analysis.py for the ConvertFilesToText() function. I can currently convert from TXT and PDF files.
2/25: Turned extra newline characters into only one for converted PDFs. Just need to modify the output a little bit.

Phase 3 Deliverable 1: Completed. Data storage defined in DataStorageStrategy.pdf. Code has started to be updated to incorporate MongoDB. Please see NewsAnalyzerDemo3_1.mov for a demonstration of my current API. Data is pulled from MongoDB. 

Phase 3 Deliverable 2: Completed. Data being stored in database, can store text data of PDF files and TXT files. Created separate field "Text" in files database for each file. Please see "TextConversionWithFileUpload.mov" for my latest demo. Also please see "MongoDBFiles.png" for a view of the updated database.

TODO:
- Add more testing
- Authentication system
- Host website on S3

Phase 1:
--------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------

Phase 1, due 2/15/21:
  - Secure File Uploader/Ingest
  - Text NLP Analysis
  - Newsfeed Ingest

Extra Requirements:
  - Create user stories for these APIs
  - For each module, make a decision:  Procedure-based or entity-based
  - For each module, decide on operations, data and status
  - Implement a stub-API
  - Use Actions and unit test
 
--------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------

Phase 2:
--------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------

- Use Flask as your WEB service platform
  - Reference 1:  https://palletsprojects.com/p/flask/ (Github:  https://github.com/pallets/flask )
  - Reference 2:  Flask-RESTFUL  (Github:  https://github.com/flask-restful/flask-restful )
- Step 2:  Integrate your module to become a RESTFUL system
  - Deploy your system to free AWS services:  https://aws.amazon.com/free/?all-free-tier.sort-by=item.additionalFields.SortRank&all-free-tier.sort-order=asc
  - Develop simple WEB applications to test your system.
  - Document your REST APIs on your Github
 
--------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------

Phase 3:
--------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------

- Focus on Ingestor module
- Investigate PDF to Text conversions
  - How to Extract Data from PDF Forms Using Python
  - pdfreader
  - Python for Pdf
  - PDFMiner
  - Fork of PDFMiner
  - Pdfplumber
- Chose module you want to use and implement uploader and Ingester
- For storage, use a folder.  No need for cloud storage.
- For extracted text, store the data in files.  No database yet.
- Due Date 2/28/2021.  It is strict this time because we want to use the database concept and implement other modules.

- First Deliverable:  Due Date: **3/1/2021**
  - Setup mysql or MongoDB
  - Create your database (Tables in case of mysql or containers in case of MongoDB)
  - Define your data storage strategy
- Second Deliverable:  Due Date: **3/7/2021**
  - Extract Text from PDF files
  - Store Data in Database
  - Dates this time are strict because we want to use the database concept and implement other modules.


--------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
